# BiometricVotingSystem
Biometric Voting System will be a multi constitution supported, secure and fast system that will be used for thrifty elections process. We strived to create an easily customizable and upgradeable system. The lack of ability to incorporate new updates in EVM is posing a serious question over their performance [1]. The new EVM soon after their introduction becomes hackable and vulnerable due to their un ability to keep up with the flow of time.
The proposed machine will be customizable and easily upgradeable. Universal equipment will be chosen to allow their compatibility with the more upgraded on chip computer (Raspberry Pi). It will make the machine more relevant, more practical and upgradeable in the future.
The proposed machine has a strong GUI element. The Biometric Voting Machine supports colorful and interactive, specially designed interface. The graphical interface, like all the other interfaces is entirely touch input based interface. It makes understanding the working of machine to general public easier as now touch interfaces are quite common in Pakistan ranging from Biometric Verification System for money transfer to ATMs.
This machine being proposed here will have the ability to support multiple constituencies vote. Using the object oriented programming (OOP) and hierarchy concepts and making main classes and sub classes, multiple constituency voting was made possible without a glitch.
The proposed system is designed to be very practical, smart and will be able to provide a solution to bulky and heavy paper based ancient Voting System. The Biometric Voting Machines will require the one-time investment to set up and in returns will take care of the ballot boxes, papers, inks, and huge manpower.
The proposed system is not just a biometric verification or voting system but also a result declaration system. It will declare the results after the required criteria has been achieved. This will automate the voting process and hence will make the declaration of results ahead of time possible. Hence, political, establishment interference and institutional rigging claims will die in the nip and hence will greatly help to make the election process more secure and end all the controversies.
The proposed system will be based on a very powerful language, Python Programming language. It itself is the name of huge number of possibilities, if cashed properly. Creating the neural networks to verify rigging and making the machine intelligent and take necessary steps is quite possible as Python is the language the world has gone to for machine learning after dumping MATLAB.
